Title: The pain points of building a copilot
Date: 2024-02-14 10:20
Modified: 2024-02-14 10:21
Category: posts
Tags: ai, developing, bullet-lists
Slug: building-a-copilot
Authors: Nat
Summary: What are the pain points of building an AI copilot?

The article, as always, is linked [here](https://austinhenley.com/blog/copilotpainpoints.html). The recap is the following:

1. Prompt engineering is time consuming and requires considerable trial and error. Additionally, it is tedious to parse the output and requires balancing more context with using fewer tokens. Another problem is managing the prompts, prompt templates, what worked, what didn't work, and why changes to them were made. As one developer said, "it's more of an art than a science".
2. Orchestration of multiple data sources and prompts is not trivial. Systems attempt to detect the user's intent and route the workflow through multiple prompts, but that increases the surface area of failure cases. Planning and multi-turn workflows are also sought after but prove to be even harder to steer. As many developers told us, it goes "off the rails".
3. Testing is fundamental to software development but arduous when LLMs are involved. Every test is a flaky test. Some developers run unit tests multiple tests and look for consensus. Others try to build large benchmarks that can be used to measure how prompts or models impact the results, but it requires expertise and is expensive. When is it "good enough"?
4. Best practices on how to work with LLMs was sought after by many of the developers. They resort to following Twitter hashtags or reading arXiv papers to learn, but it doesn't scale and they don't know which resources are good. The field is moving fast, and it requires developers to "throw away everything that they've learned and rethink it."
5. Safety, privacy, and compliance is a concern in everyone's mind. It requires guardrails to prevent the copilot from causing damage, but you also can't collect telemetry data on how it is being used since that causes privacy issues with the users' data. A safety review is a new, and often tedious, task that software engineers are going through.
6. Developer experience is a pain point for anyone involved with building copilots. While there are new tools, like Langchain, they often didn't scale beyond a prototype. For example, prompts are often just string variables in their source code. Developers are having to learn and compare many new tools rather than focusing on the customer problem. They then have to glue these tools together.
